# 4.1 The-maximum-subarray-problem
From the book "Introduction to Algorithms" Third Edition by Thomas H. Cormen, Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein.
Suppose that you been offered the oportunity to invest in the Volatile Chemical Corporation. Lke the chemicals the company produces, the stock price of the Volatile Chemical Corporation is rather volatile. You are allowed  to buy  one unit of the stock  only one time and then sell it at a later date, buying and selling after the close of trading for the day. To compensate for this restriction, you are allowed  to learn  what price of the stock will be in the future.
Your goal is to maxmize your profit. Volatile Chemical Corporation Stock 1 in Jupyter notebook shows the price of the stock  over a 17-day period. You may buy the stock at any one time, starting after day 0, when the price is $100 per share. Of couse, you would want to "buy low, sell high" - buy at the lowest possible price and later on sell at the highest possible price - to maximize your profit. Unfortanetely, you might not be able to buy at the lowest price and then sell at the highest price within a given period. In Volatile Chemical Corporation Stock 1, the lowest price occurs after the highest price, after day 1.
You might think that you can always maximize profit by either buying at the lowest price or selling at the highest price. For example, in Volatile Chemical Corporation Stock 1 Jupyter notebook, we would maximize profit by buying at the lowest price, after day 7. If this strategy always worked, then it would be easy to determine how to maximize profit: find the higest and lowest prices, and then work left from the highest price to find the lowest prior price, work right from the lowest price to find the highest later price, and take the pair with the greater difference.
Volatile Chemical Corporation Stock 2 in Jupyter notebook, shows a simple counterexample demonstrating that the maximum profit sometimes comes neither by buying at the lowest price nor by selling at the higest price.
We want to find a sequence of days over which the net change from the first day to the last is maximum. We now want to find the nonempty, contigous subarray of Change array from Jupyter notebook whose values have the largest sum. We call this contigous subarray the maximum subarray. For example, in the array of Change, the maximum subarray of Change[1..16] is Change[8..11], with the sum 43. Thus, you would want to buy the stock just before day 8(that is, after day 7) and sell it after day 11, earning a profit of $43 per share.
